# Abstracting parsers

One of FParsec’s greatest strengths is the ease with which you can define your own parser abstractions.

Take for instance the floatBetweenBrackets from the previous section. 
If you intend to also parse other elements between strings, you could define your own specialized combinator for this purpose:

```fsharp
let betweenStrings s1 s2 p = str s1 >>. p .>> str s2
```

You could then define floatInBrackets and other parsers with the help of this combinator:

```fsharp
let floatBetweenBrackets = pfloat |> betweenStrings "[" "]"
let floatBetweenDoubleBrackets = pfloat |> betweenStrings "[[" "]]"
```

__*Note*__

>In case you’re new to F#:
>```fsharp
>pfloat |> betweenStrings "[" "]"
>```
>is just another way to write 
>```fsharp
>betweenStrings "[" "]" pfloat
>```

Once you notice that you frequently need to apply a parser between two others, you could go a step further and factor betweenStrings as follows:

```fsharp
let between pBegin pEnd p  = pBegin >>. p .>> pEnd
let betweenStrings s1 s2 p = p |> between (str s1) (str s2)
```

Actually, you don’t need to define [between](http://www.quanttec.com/fparsec/reference/primitives.html#members.between), because this is already a built‐in FParsec combinator.

These are all trivial examples, of course. But since FParsec is merely an F# library and not some external parser generator tool, there are no limits to the abstractions you can define.
You can write functions that take whatever input you need, do some arbitrarily complex computations on the input and then return a special purpose parser or parser combinator.

For example, you could write a function that takes a regular‐expression pattern as the input and returns a  Parser for parsing input conforming to that pattern.
This function could use another parser to parse the pattern into an AST and then compile this AST into a special‐purpose parser function.
Alternatively, it could construct a .NET regular expression from the pattern and then return a parser function that uses FParsec’s  CharStream API to directly apply the regex to the input stream (which is what the built‐in regex parser actually does).

Another example are extensible parser applications.
By storing parser functions in dictionaries or other data structures and defining an appropriate extension protocol, you could allow plugins to dynamically register new parsers or modify existing ones.

The possibilities are really endless. But before you can fully exploit these possibilities, you first need to be familiar with the fundamentals of FParsec.